# Rapidly-Exploring Random Trees (1998)

# Summary
The Rapidly-Exploring Random Tree (RRT) was introduced in 1998 by Steven LaValle in the paper *Rapidly-Exploring Random Trees: A New Tool for Path Planning* [1]. The RRT is a randomized motion planner based on a tree which is iteratively expanded toward randomly sampled states. Because the RRT doesn't require directly connecting arbitrary states, it's well-suited for nonholonomic problems.

# Pseudocode
An RRT with `K` vertices can be constructed based on an initial state (`x_init`) and a timestep (`dt`). During each iteration, a random state (`x_rand`) is sampled and the nearest vertex (`x_near`) in the tree is found. Then, a motion command (`u`) is computed to best steer from `x_near` to `x_rand`. Finally, the state (`x_new`) generated by applying this motion command from `x_near` is added to the tree. The following pseudocode is directly adapted from [1].

```Python
GenerateRRT( x_init, K, dt ):
    T.init( x_init )
    for k = 1 to K:
        x_rand = RandomState()
        x_near = NearestNeighbor( x_rand, T )
        u = SelectInput( x_near, x_rand )
        x_new = NewState( x_near, u, dt )
        T.add_vertex( x_new )
        T.add_edge( x_near, x_new, u )
    return T
```

# Experimental Results

The following experimental results are notable from the 1998 paper:
1. On a 100 m by 100 m 2D plane, the RRT quickly expands towards all four corners of the square. The Euclidean distance metric was used.

2. In 2D, convex spaces, the naive RRT-found path differs from the optimal path by a factor of 1.3 to 2.0.

3. The RRT vertices are confirmed to be uniform, according to several Chi-square tests.

4. In a 3D holonomic problem, a block fits through a narrow gap.

5. Motion planning for a car that can only turn right and move forward.

6. Motion planning in a cluttered environment for a car that can only move forward and turn left in three different increments.

7. Motion planning using a 5D RRT for a kinodynamic car in a cluttered environment.


# Citations

[1] Rapidly-exploring random trees: A new tool for path planning. S. M. LaValle. TR 98-11, Computer Science Dept., Iowa State University, October 1998, [[pdf]](http://lavalle.pl/papers/Lav98c.pdf).